---
layout: single
title: "Song Recommender Day 4"
date: 2026-05-21
categories:
  - Blogging
  - song-recommender-project
tags:
  - Jekyll
excerpt: "Update on day 4 of the project"
---

### Progress

I'm using TensorFlow and Keras in order to train a CNN based on spectrograms of the data.

While training, my model, I noticed the training accuracy was 99 percent, but the validation accuracy was absolutely atrocious. I probabl have some data leakage somewhere thats causing this heavy overfitting. It was also thinking that everything was metal music.

After seeing these problems, I tried a combination of three things:

### Adding more Data

Because the GTZAN dataset is actually quite small, with only 100 songs per genre, the CNN is trying to train itself with only 80 samples per genre. For a neural network, that's extremely small, when it's used to working with numbers even into the millions. By slicing each 30 second sample into 10, 3 second samples, I was able to effectively increase my dataset by 10x.

### Not Using Matplotlib for Image Saving

Before, I was using Matplotlib to save the images of the spectrograms generated by librosa. This caused some issues though, as the Matplotlib saved things unpredictably, leaving the canvases different sizes, leading to stretching and blurring, etc. I switched to saving the song into a spectrogram with a clean 128 x 128 matrix. This made everything a lot more standardized.

### Using Existing Models (Transfer Learning)

I used Google's MobileNetV2 model that was already trained with millions of images as a starting point for my model. I just trained the top layers of this model with my dataset.

### End of Today Recap

At the end of all of this, I had a validation accuracy of about 75 percent. I'm starting to suspect that the 90 percent accuracy that I achieved before on the other model may have just been the training accuracy, or something else because that feels way too high. I'll compare the two models later.

Also, I tested the model I trained today on two songs, a jazz one (autmn leaves). and a random heavy metal song I found online. For Autumn leaves, it actually categorized it as jazz, with a 70 percent confidence. For the metal one, while it did correctly categorize it, it only had a 50 percent confidence rate.

I'm so happy that I finally got this neural network working after like 4 hours of frustration.