---
layout: single
title: "Song Recommender Day 3"
date: 2026-05-19
categories:
  - Blogging
tags:
  - Jekyll
excerpt: "Update on day 3 of the project"
---

### Progress

Using the librosa library, I can extract the MFCCs of each audio file, giving the model some features to base its guess off of. A MFCC is a Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficient, which from my research, is basically a mathematical audio fingerprint that helps computers understand audio. Apparently, it's used in a lot of voice recognition stuff.

With just getting the MFCCs and using a random forest classification model from sklearn, I was able to get an accuracy of around 0.6. Actually, this is pretty decent, considering that there are 10 choices, and random guessing would yield 0.1.

I added some more features (extracted more data from the audio files), including spectral centroid and zero crossing rate. Adding all of these actually made it worse, about 0.5. I added feature scaling, since some of them might be large while others may be small. With this added, I'm back to 0.6.

I made it extract more MFCCs (13 -> 40), which increased the accuracy to 0.65.

After adding like, every single feature I could find in the librosa library, I actually acheived an accuracy of about 0.75.

I'm going to try to break each song down into multiple segments so I have more data to work with. This made it way slower and more expensive to run, so I'm gonna move to a Kaggle notebook.

I'm actually really happy with my progress for today. I ended up with an accuracy of 0.92. In summary, these are the methods I used:
* SVC Model
* Seperating individual audio files into multiple segments
* MFCCs
* Spectral centroid
* Zero-crossing rate
* Chroma
* RMS
* And finally, spectral bandwith

Next, I'm going to try to turn each audio file into a spectrogram, a picture, and use a neural network to try to identify the genre from that image.
