---
layout: single
title: "Song Recommender Day 10"
date: 2026-07-16
categories:
  - Blogging
  - song-recommender-project
tags:
  - Jekyll
excerpt: "Update on day 10 of the project"
---

I got it to fully work! A few days ago, you would run the program once, and it would output one song recommendation to the terminal, but now I have it so that it loops constantly, detecting any song changes, and automatically adds the suggestion to listening queue in Spotify. I did this using the Spotify API's ability to start playbacks and add songs to queue (which I didn't even know it could do a few days ago).


### Details and Issues in Development

The song recommender will not play a song that has been played before, and will not play a song by a specific artist if that artist has been played before in the last 5 songs listened to.


The recommender utlilizes the Spotify queue, which is actually a lot more convenient than what I was trying before. I tried starting a new playback every time the recommender detected a change, but that didn't go too well. Basically, when you start a new playback from the API, it doesnt have anything else in the queue, so it just stays on that one song forever; that led it to not ever detecting a change and never playing anything new. When I kept fiddling around with it, it started to think that every time it started a new song on its own (the recommendation) it was a change, which led it to keep recommending songs over and over with only about 5 seconds of each song ever playing.


When I shifted to adding it to queue, it made things much better. It made the transitions between songs perfectly smooth, and never encountered any issues with it getting caught into a loop or anything.

### Performance

I decided to test this on a collaborative playlist I have with my friends, which includes a variety of songs, some of which that I like, and some of which I do like. The Spotify shuffle did a good job of getting a good variety of songs within the playlist, but that led to it sometimes recommending me songs that I didn't like. On the other hand, my recommender, trained off my own listening data did a much better job of recommending me songs I would like.


### Conclusion and What's Next for This Project

Overall, I'm pretty happy with the performance of the recommender but I'll still work on it from time to time, probably adding some new features and whatnot. Stay tuned.